The stratigies depolyed in dialogue may be affected by the interpersonal relationship between speaker and listener. Depending on the relationship that the speaker has with listener, he adopts a specifc behaviours that affect how he formulates its discourse and the strategies to satisfies his goals. To analyse such affects, we conduct two expirments in which we register the conversation of participants who have as instruction to discuss in order to find a restaurant to have dinner. The goal was to study the strategies of participants to satifies both their communicative and internal goal and extract a specific behavior from the relationship that participants develop along the dialogue. The results of expriments reveals two specifics relationships (Dominant/submissive) and  affect or liking relationship. [ref]

The next step of our analysis is to write two dialogues with respect of behaviours observed in the collected dialogues. These dialogues, however share the same communicative goal (i.e find a restaurant). Therefore, we present in the following the differences observed between  a dominant / submissive behavior and peer and agreable behaviour.
	 The first difference occurs on how participants intiate dialogue.  For example a dominant participant expresses explicitly his invitation and define where he wants to go. Ex: "Let's go out on the town tongiht". A participant with liking behavior will ask the other for dinner "Would you like to go out with me tonight". ( Ajouter submissive ?...). 
	The second observed difference appears in the way to express their preferences. A dominant behavior express clearly his preferences and defends them if the other participant doen't share the same preferences. He can also insists for that as demonstratedi n the following example (I is the dominant behavior).

	I: I heard about a new indian restaurant in town. I want to taste their food 
	Everyone I've spoken with says that it is great.
	O: Oh, sorry but I'm afraid I can't. I don't support spicy food.
	I: But there are also sweet spices like curry it gives so much taste. 
	I: We should taste it.
	O: I believe you, but really I don't support spices. 
	O: sorry 

However, a liking behavior proposes its preference but if the other participant doesn't have the same preferences, he'll accept. If we take back the previous example with a liking behavior we get the following dialogue.

	I: I heard about a new indian restaurant in town. I want to taste their food 
	Everyone I've spoken with says that it is great.
	O: I'm afraid I can't. I really don't support spicy food.
	I: I understand. We can find something else. 

A submissive behavior doesn't express his preferences, but tends to ask for other preferences as the following example (O is the submissive behavior) 
	O: How about Ciasa Mia restaurant? 
	I: Oh, nooo! I hate this restaurant


change the topic of conversation



