Virtual Reality Negotiation Training Increases
Negotiation Knowledge and Skill

 In this paper we present an experiment with a virtual training
system for negotiation that has been carefully constructed, involving a virtual
agent that is able to express emotions and explain its behavior. VR negotiation
training is in essence a role play between a human and a virtual human, as often
used in traditional negotiation training. Therefore, the use of intelligent virtual
agents equipped with human-like capabilities such as emotion and explanation
is a logical choice. 

To enhance the realism of the virtual training, and to emphasize the importance
of emotions during the negotiation process, the VC facially expresses three
basic emotions as feedback to the trainee’s selected response option: happiness,
sadness and anger. 

Because understanding of the other side’s preferences is an important shortcoming
of novice negotiators (see above), we support trainees in their learning by
making the negotiation agent (the VC) able to explain its own behavior. Explanations
about agent behavior aim to help trainees to better understand played
training sessions and learn from them, see e.g. [16,33,11].

We found significant effects of training on conversation skill
and negotiation knowledge

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Negotiation as a Challenge Problem
for Virtual Humans


In summary, we reported on our efforts to build a Conflict Resolution Agent that
can negotiate with people and allow students to practice their negotiation skills.

We describe the development of a virtual
human that will allow students to practice the interpersonal skills they need
to recognize and navigate these situations.

The Conflict Resolution Agent (CRA), pictured in Fig. 2, is a game-like environment
that allows negotiation students to engage with different virtual human role-players
across a variety of multi-issue bargaining problems. Our goal is to allow students to
communicate with a fully automated agent through natural language and nonverbal
expressions.students can
be presented with a wide range of negotiation and dispute-resolution concepts such as integrative potential, anchoring, reciprocal information exchange, rights vs. interests,
emotional intelligence and establishing rapport. This mirrors how bargaining games are
used to teach negotiation in business schools.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Effect of Expression of Anger and Happiness in
Computer Agents on Negotiations with Humans


Kraus and Lehmann [37] developed the
Diplomat agent that behaves according to different ‘personalities’
and has a learning mechanism to learn the personality of its
opponents. The agent also has a randomization mechanism that,
according to its personality, determines whether agreements will
be breached or fulfilled.

Gal et al.
[43] propose a learning mechanism that learns a model of human
social preferences and this model is then used to predict the
reaction of the opponent to the agent’s offers.


Demalo ont étudié l'impact de l'expression de la colère et de la joie sur la négociation entre un humain et agent.
Ils proposent un agent capable d'exprimer des émotions de coleres et de joies et ont trouvé que les humain adaptés leurs stratégies de concessions en fonction de l'emotion affichée par l'agent.
En effet, les négociateurs humains concèdent plus à un agent qui exprime la colère qu'à celui qui exprime le bonheur.

*** Rebondir apres sur ce paoier
Humans vs. Computers: Impact of Emotion
Expressions on People’s Decision Making
De plus, [] ajoutent que la perception de ces émotions est plus importante chez un avatar en comparaison à un agent. 


-----------------------------
Mon papier intellisys

accordingly, reasoning about the social behaviors is im-
portant for the perspective of constructing negotiators agents.
[25] proposed a model that can observe and predict other’s
agents emotional behaviors: the three step method revises the
agent’s beliefs by integrating a Bayesian model which infers
probabilities about the emotional behaviors of other’s agents
and computes probabilistic prediction about their appraisals




----------------------------------------
Interpersonal effects of expressed anger and sorrow in morally charged negotiation
http://journal.sjdm.org/13/13910b/jdm13910b.html

We investigated the impact of facial displays of discrete emotions, specifically anger and sadness, in a morally charged multi-issue negotiation task. Our results indicate that if a negotiator associated moral significance to the object of the negotiation, displays of anger resulted in reduced concession making whereas displays of sadness increased concession making. Moral significance of the issues fostered an emotional matching mechanism of sorrow, where a sorrow expression from one party elicited a sorrow expression from the other. Taken together, the results indicate that emotional expressions can affect morally charged negotiation in ways that can inhibit as well as promote cooperation.

In this study, we investigated the impact of facial displays of discrete emotions, specifically sadness and anger, in a morally charged multi-issue negotiation task in which one of the issues entailed the moral matter of saving the life of the negotiator’s child.

Our result demonstrates that displays of anger may result in lower concessions if one of the parties associates moral significance to the objects of the negotiation
ith moral significance, a sorrow display may be a more effective strategy to elicit concessions. 


